
A lightless void. That is what most of space is. Yet in spite of this, humankind has long looked up at the night sky in wonder, wishing to bask in the light of the tiny specks tucked throughout the sea of darkness.

For centuries, it seemed impossible. The distances were far too vast to make it to any other star alive, let alone the nearest stars which showed promise of hospitable planets. Even exploring our own tiny solar system was a daunting task, one which we could only achieve over the course of decades with the aid of robots. Earth was the only home we knew.

[fadein gfx/intro/first_steps_into_space.webp]
So when cyrogenic freezing became advanced enough to preserve human life for periods of time long enough to survive a trip to nearby stars, some people jumped at the chance. Thousands of people locked their sleeping bodies into hulking metal boxes which were hurled out into the void.

Many perished in the long journey. But the First Growth had begun. Humanity had now spread itself to new stars, which became known as the Frontier.

The Frontier colonies were isolated, not only from the Earth, but from each other. The distances were too vast, the time scales required for regular communication too great. Space travel was rare and almost certainly one-way.

[fadein gfx/intro/faster_than_light.webp]
When a method of creating weaknesses in the fabric of spacetime led to the discovery of hyperspace, everything changed. Now it was possible to create "jump gates", paths through hyperspace which could take a ship many light-years away in the span of only a few hours.

The Second Growth had begun, with earthlings spreading through hyperspace from star to star, the goal being to finally unite Earth with the colonies of the Frontier.

However, before the Frontier could be reached, the Faction Wars rippled through the galaxy as various people tried to obtain power and wealth for themselves.

[fadein gfx/intro/reign_of_daedris.webp]
After decades of war, a man named Daedris would reign supreme. He and his army established the first Galactic Empire with an iron fist. Interplanetary relations improved. Trade routes operated again for the first time in living memory. And what's more, the goal of connecting to the Frontier was finally completed. Many cheered for the Empire's success, seeing it as the protector of a new era of peace.

After Daedris, under his successors, the light of the empire waned. Civil strife and religious division weakened social bonds. The Great Projects of the Empire went awry. In some regions, administration fell into the hands of other powers. The Great Houses now policed the space lanes.

But the political troubles of the Empire were nothing compared to the Incident. From Earth, a cataclysmic explosion ripped through space, annihilating stars, vaporizing worlds. Billions died. Dozens of systems disappeared into the mysterious nebula left behind. Now the great, galaxy-spanning Empire hangs on as a shadow of its former glory.

[fadein gfx/intro/questions.webp]
What else remains? Questions.

Ten Standard Cycles have passed in a universe ruled by the shards of a decaying empire. After the Incident, corruption and piracy run rampant. But where there is chaos, there is also opportunity.

Welcome to the eye of the Imperial storm....




[fadeout]
